toefl reading sentence simplification
okay in this video i'm going to explain
to you what a
sentence simplification question tests
you on
how to identify this type of question
what strategy you should use and we'll
finish with some tips and tricks
so what does a sentence simplification
question test well it tests your ability
to
paraphrase that is to say something in a
different way
but keep the same meaning okay that's
what paraphrase means so it tests you
on that it also tests your ability to
recognize
the relative importance of key ideas
that is
an idea within the context of the
paragraph
it also tests your ability to summarize
information
without changing the meaning or leaving
out
important information so how do we
identify
this type of question in toefl reading
well a sentence will be highlighted in
the passage
and it always has the same question
prompt
which is which of the following best
expresses the essential information in
the highlighted sentence
incorrect answer choices change the
meaning in
important ways or leave out essential
information
so what strategy should we use for this
question type
well you need to read the question you
need to
read the highlighted sentence
you need to think about how you would
paraphrase it that is
you should look at that highlighted
sentence and think to yourself
if i were to rewrite this in other words
to capture the same meaning how would i
do it okay
that's a key part of this then you would
eliminate
answer options that don't reflect the
same meaning
you would eliminate those answer options
that change the meaning in some way
so let's read the question which of the
following best expresses the essential
information in the highlighted sentence
incorrect answer choices change the
meaning in important ways or leave out
essential information
so now let's read the highlighted
sentence
by reducing tillage soil is not
turned over and exposed to air
less carbon is lost to the atmosphere
resulting in
more soil organic carbon and carbon
sequestration
which can reduce greenhouse gases and
help reverse climate change
now we need to think about how we would
paraphrase this in our own words how we
would say it
differently but capture the same meaning
here's an example reduced ploughing
helps
maintain a carbon-rich soil which in
turn
reduces greenhouse gases and reverses
climate change
now let's go through and eliminate
answer options that
don't reflect the same meaning as that
highlighted sentence
so when farmers plow their fields more
the benefits to the atmosphere are
increased
that is contradictory farmers can
increase the amount of
oxygen in the soil by tilling it less it
didn't
say oxygen it said carbon
the release of carbon is lessened when
farmers plow
less i like the sound of that one let's
eliminate this one
the amount of carbon in the soil is
reduced
when farmers till their fields less
again
this is contradictory it didn't say that
so that sentence the release of carbon
is lessened when
farmers plough less captures the main
idea of that highlighted sentence
let's do one more this time i'm going to
step back and leave it up to you
let's just quickly recap the strategy so
i want you to read the question
read the highlighted sentence think
about how
you would paraphrase it in your own
words
eliminate answer options that don't
reflect the same meaning that
change the meaning in some way let's
practice
okay so the highlighted part of the text
says new research from the university of
washington finds that a natural
aptitude for learning languages is a
stronger predictor of learning to
program
than basic math knowledge or numeracy so
which of these answer options says the
same thing but in different words so
let's take a look let's eliminate some
incorrect ones
having good communication skills is
essential to become a good programmer
it's not quite right being able to speak
another language helps students to learn
programming faster
yeah it didn't say that what about d
students are better able to write
code when they learn a second language
it didn't quite say that let's look at c
students who have a language learning
ability
an aptitude do well in programming
cool that one looks good to me so that
there
is the answer okay let's have a look at
some tips and tricks so
try to understand the meaning of the
highlighted sentence
obviously that's critical make sure the
answer you choose includes the main idea
in the highlighted sentence don't be
tricked by answer options that contain
words from the highlighted sentence but
change the meaning okay
it's all about carrying over the same
meaning to that simplified sentence
and if you're watching this on youtube
check out e2language.com you can sign up
for free
and when you do you can click on the
toefl course to get access to the course
materials
you can put your skills to the test with
a mini
mock test which is pretty radical it
gives you a good test experience you
receive comprehensive feedback from our
teachers and your writing and speaking
and also a nice report card with scores
you can also book one-on-one tutorials
with our expert teachers on
any of the toefl tasks these are 45
minutes one-on-one and extremely
powerful
cool remember to subscribe like
comment and feel free to share this
video